[Small Feature] Region Growing Revision (#5563)
CGAL/cgal: Shape_detection/doc/Shape_detection/Shape_detection.txt

The classes in Section \ref Shape_detection_RegionGrowingPoints "Region Growing On Point Set" depend on a few parameters
that should be defined by the user. They also have default values, but these values do not necessarily guarantee
to produce pleasant results. All parameter values can be specified using \ref bgl_namedparameters "Named Parameters".

The `NeighborQuery` related classes depend on the `neighbor_radius` parameter:

- `neighbor_radius` in the class `CGAL::Shape_detection::Point_set::Sphere_neighbor_query`,
defines the radius of the fuzzy search sphere centered at the query point;

- `neighbor_radius` in the class `CGAL::Shape_detection::Point_set::K_neighbor_query`,

> defines the number K of nearest neighbors of the query point.

Reviewer: This change seems weird: the previous version was clearer, if I have a class named `K_neighbor_query`, the parameter `k` is expected and quite understandable. Now it's `neighbor_radius`, but in practise it's not a radius. This seems to go against the principle of least surprise. I understand it's to have a unified naming, but it seems like a bad reason to change that.

Author: Honestly, I also do not like very much this name but I tried to have the same unified name in the named parameters of different neighbor classes. I will see how to change it to satisfy the principle of least surprise. You are absolutely right!

Author: I now use `min` and `max` uniformly.

-# Detect;
-# Postprocess.

Given a 2D point set, we detect 2D lines using the fuzzy sphere neighborhood. We then color all points
from the found regions and save them in a file (see Figure \cgalFigureRef{Region_growing_on_point_set_2}).

> The points with assigned to them normal vectors are stored in `std::vector` and the

Author: I will rephrase.

</table>

If the neighborhood size is set too low, some points might be isolated, the region size would not reach a critical mass and so will be discarded.
This does not only cause the latency in the program, but also reduces the coverage value, as can be seen when the `neighbor_radius = 1`.

> A typical time measure for a 3D point set with the K nearest neighborhood and well-defined parameters can be found in the following table:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A typical runtime measure for a 3D point set with the K nearest neighborhood and well-defined parameters can be found in the following table:
```

- `CGAL::Shape_detection::Polygon_mesh::Least_squares_plane_fit_region` class that fits a 3D plane to the vertices of
all mesh faces, which have been added to the region so far, and controls the quality of this fit.

> This component accepts any model of the concept `FaceListGraph` as a polygon mesh. A picture below

Reviewer 2: ref the fig directly

are found using the internal face graph connectivity, while the `RegionType` related class depends on three parameters:

- `distance_threshold` - the maximum distance from the furthest face vertex to a plane;

> - `angle_deg_threshold` - the maximum accepted angle between the face normal and the normal of a plane;

Reviewer 2: remove `deg`?

Author: First, I did not have `deg` but then I noticed that some people when using the code provided radian values so I changed to deg to be sure that people do not miss that the angle is in degrees.

Author: Should I still remove it?

Reviewer 3: You can put that in the text.

mostly depends on the `RegionType` model's implementation, which is usually fast, too.

\subsection Shape_detection_RegionGrowingSegments Segment Set

If one wants to detect lines in a segment set, this \cgal component provides the corresponding models of the concept

> \ref Shape_detection_RegionGrowingFramework_conditions "RegionType". In particular, it has the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\ref Shape_detection_RegionGrowingFramework_conditions "RegionType". In particular, it provides:
```

- `CGAL::Shape_detection::Segment_set::Least_squares_line_fit_region` class that fits a 2D or 3D line
to the chunks of 2D or 3D segments, respectively, and controls the quality of this fit.

> The quality of region growing in a segment set (2D or 3D) can be improved by slightly sacrificing the running time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quality of region growing in a segment set (2D or 3D) can be improved by slightly increasing the running time.
```

to the class `CGAL::Shape_detection::Polygon_mesh::Polyline_graph` that returns a range of the corresponding edges,
which can later be split into a set of linear regions, as shown in the example below.

\cgalExample{Shape_detection/region_growing_on_polyline_graph.cpp}

\subsubsection Shape_detection_RegionGrowingSegments_parameters Parameters

The line fitting class above depends on three parameters:

- `distance_threshold` - the maximum distance from the furthest segment vertex to a line;
- `angle_threshold` - the maximum accepted angle in degrees between the segment direction and the direction of a line;
- `min_region_size` - the minimum number of segments a region must have.

More details are explained in
Section \ref Shape_detection_RegionGrowingFramework_conditions "Framework Regions".
The right choice of these parameters is important for producing the good results.

\subsection Shape_detection_RegionGrowingPolyline Polyline

If one wants to detect lines along a 2D or 3D polyline,

\cgalFigureBegin{Region_growing_on_polyline, Region_growing/region_growing_on_polyline.png}
A 3D polyline depicted with one color per detected line.

> \cgalFigureEnd

Reviewer: The figure in the middle of a sentence is weird, you should probably move it after the text.

Author: I will pay more attention to this naming and see how to make it look good everywhere.

mostly depends on the `RegionType` model's implementation, which is usually fast, too.

\subsection Shape_detection_RegionGrowingSegments Segment Set

If one wants to detect lines in a segment set, this \cgal component provides the corresponding models of the concept
\ref Shape_detection_RegionGrowingFramework_conditions "RegionType". In particular, it has the

- `CGAL::Shape_detection::Segment_set::Least_squares_line_fit_region` class that fits a 2D or 3D line
to the chunks of 2D or 3D segments, respectively, and controls the quality of this fit.

The quality of region growing in a segment set (2D or 3D) can be improved by slightly sacrificing the running time.
To achieve this, one can sort indices of input segments with respect to some quality criteria. These quality criteria

> can be included through the \ref Shape_detection_RegionGrowingFramework_seeding "SeedMap" input parameter.

Reviewer 2: If `SeedMap` is not a concept it should not be written like that.

We provide such a quality sorting:

- `CGAL::Shape_detection::Segment_set::Least_squares_line_fit_sorting` - indices of input segments are sorted with respect
to the quality of the least squares line fit applied to the neighbors of each segment.

If the user's input is a polygon mesh defined as a `FaceListGraph`, it is also possible to filter out all
graph edges, which split this polygon mesh into a set of regions. To achieve that, one first needs to apply
the region growing on a polygon mesh and extract a set of such regions and then provide these regions
to the class `CGAL::Shape_detection::Polygon_mesh::Polyline_graph` that returns a range of the corresponding edges,
which can later be split into a set of linear regions, as shown in the example below.

\cgalExample{Shape_detection/region_growing_on_polyline_graph.cpp}

\subsubsection Shape_detection_RegionGrowingSegments_parameters Parameters

The line fitting class above depends on three parameters:

- `distance_threshold` - the maximum distance from the furthest segment vertex to a line;

> - `angle_deg_threshold` - the maximum accepted angle between the segment direction and the direction of a line;

Reviewer 2: remove `deg`?

Author: See above.

> - `min_region_size` - the minimum number of segments a region must have.

Reviewer 2: min vs threshold

Author: What do you mean here? Change `min` to `threshold`?

Reviewer 2: it would be more uniform (except if there is a reason to use min)

Author: `threshold` to me sounds more like maximum whereas here we actually use minimum so I am not sure about this change.

Reviewer: I think this is something inherited from the original RANSAC. So if we change it here, we should change it on the whole package… I agree that min VS threshold is weird, if we use `min`, then we should use max on the others (`max_distance` and `max_angle` for example).

Author: I now use `min` and `max` instead.

\section Shape_detection_DeprecatedComponents Deprecated Components

This version of Region Growing deprecates the old way to specify parameters. Now, all parameters
are provided as \ref bgl_namedparameters "Named Parameters". That means the old constructors are deprecated.
Second, the method `update` of the \ref Shape_detection_RegionGrowingFramework_conditions "RegionType" concept
now returns a Boolean flag. When it is `true`, the new region is further propagated, otherwise, it is rejected.

> The reason behind this change is to provide users with control for early rejection of non-valid regions.

Reviewer: Maybe add a quick code example to show how to switch to the new API?

I think there's a way to display a small portion code without actually creating a new example (check Doxygen), something very simple like:

```c++
// Old API
Region_growing region_growing (points, points_map, blabla);

// New API
Region_growing region_growing (points, CGAL::parameters::point_map(point_map).blabla(blabla));
```
